PRACTICAL NO.7
AIM: Implement FOSS-Cloud Functionality VSI (Virtual Server Infrastructure) Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Storage , VSI Platform as a Service (PaaS)

SOLUTION:
1) Implement FOSS-Cloud Functionality VSI (Virtual Server Infrastructure) Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Storage
Step 1: Download and install FOSS-Cloud from its official website.


Step 2: Open Virtual Machine and create new Virtual Machine. Add your foss cloud iso file path at ISO Image.


Step 3: At the time of setup allocate Base memory.


Step 4: Create Virtual Hard Disk and give disk size.





Step 5: Click on settings.


Step 6: Select System  Display & add video memory. 






Step 7: Select Network & add Bridge Adapter. Then USB & SELECT USB 2.0 (OHCI + EHCI )Controller.


Step 8: Block/Off the firewall from settings.



Step 9: Select 1st option here and Enter.



Step 10:  Type yes to start the installation.


Step 11: Open cmd and type following command and enter.


Step 12: Now start with the FOSS virtual machine.


Step 13:  Enter Number 1 to install Demo-System server.

Step 14:  Add device name sda.


Step 15: Enter yes to continue for installation of Device Partitioning.


Step 16: Add available Ethernet device name eg:enp0s3





Step 17: Enter yes to use automatic network configuration and enter yes.



Step 18: Now select Boot from first hard disk and enter.


Step 19:  Select FOSS-Cloud and press Enter.




Step 20: Now, login with user credentials given here.


Step 21: Add following command in front of localhost fc-node-configuration –n demo-system –password admin. Press Enter and the installation process will started.




Step 22: Type ifconfig command to get inet of the device.








Step 23:  Open browser add ip address & press enter


Step 24: Login with the credentials.



Step 25:  You are done with the FOSS Cloud installation & setup.

















2)  Implement FOSS-Cloud Functionality - VSI Platform as a Service (PaaS),
Step 1: After installation, it will show you an IP Address. Put it in your browser to access your administration page. 


Step 2: Now select virtual machine  Upload ISO File & choose iso file to upload. You can upload either Ubuntu iso file or foss iso file or any other.


Step 3: Add file name after choosing the iso file.


Step 4: Now click on upload button.





Step 5: Now after uploading file. Select create under the profile section.


Step 6: Select in 
Step 1 : select windows  en-US. 
Step 2: Select iso file. Give Name to your Vm Profile. Add Description. Add memory and remaining details as given or provided & click on Create button given below.

Step 7: After creating following page will open.







Step 8: Now, create VmTemplate.


Step 9: After creating template Manage VMTemplate page will be displayed. Status is stopped to start it click on green Arrow in Run Action to start the status.

Step 10: Here, you can see the status is running.!


